Three Special Places

Every city has at least a few designed places that give the city its character and accommodate the lives and aspirations of residents and visitors.  This assignment will give you an opportunity to share three of these in your city with others who are part of the Designing Cities course.  In preparing your submissions, it will give you a chance to think about what makes a great place.

First, what do we mean by designed?  A plan for a place can be created by some individual or group, but it can also be the result of many people’s actions over a long period of time.  In fact, many great places are constantly evolving to fit the times.  But they are not accidental:  someone or some people had an idea that has become a reality.

Identify three kinds of places that have a special character

A Street
A District
A Public Space

Document the place through 2-3 photographs (or sketches if you are so inclined) and a sketch plan (don’t worry about getting all the dimensions completely accurate).

Write a brief caption (no more than 200 words for each, preferably less) for each place which addresses:

Why is it a great place?

Who had a hand in making it so?

Who uses it, and how do they seem to feel about it?

Is it changing or stable?

Turn your presentation of each place into a pdf by affixing the material to an A – 4 or 81/2 by 11” sheet of paper,  or make your presentation of each place into a PowerPoint slide.

Please submit your presentation as a SINGLE PDF including the .pdfs of your three sheets or of the three PowerPoint slides. Be sure to include your name of your pdf.

If you don’t have the capacity to do this, send the individual pieces along as .jpg or other files.   We prefer you to use the following labels for your work:  familyname_givenname-2, or if there are multiple pieces being submitted, make them familyname_givenname-2-1, and so on.

Professor Hack explains the assignment in this video: https://class.coursera.org/designingcities-001/lecture/79

Enjoy exploring your city!
