Every city is shaped by a unique set of forces: its site, patterns of ownership and resources, the technologies for building and movement at the time of development and, not the least,
by ideas of the good city held by designers, promoters, public officials and developers.

The modules in Weeks 1 and 2 outline some of the historical forces and ideas that shape cities. Applying these ideas and others that you may be familiar with, take a close look at your city’s pattern.

·      Maps

Prepare 3 PDF or 3 PowerPoint (PPT or PPTX) slides showing maps of the growth and development of the city where you live, or a city near where you live, in the 19th century, in the mid-20th century, and today, and identify examples on these maps of the city-shaping ideas that the faculty has described. Prepare a key that characterizes each in a few words, capturing the essential design idea.

    One way to do this is to download a map or aerial view from Google Earth and print it, and then use colored markers to outline the areas.
    Or if you have skills in computer graphics, or have a Photoshop program available to you can do it electronically. Or if you use a PowerPoint program, you can insert the map or aerial view, then superimpose lines and words that identify the historical eras of development.
    Or you can simply take a city map and mark it up, attaching a key to a section that isn’t important.
    If you live in a very large city, no need to be exhaustive and include everything. Take one sector of the city, or one large neighborhood that existed in all three of the time periods identified above.
    Don’t forget to label the map so that others know what city (or district, or neighborhood) you are describing.



·      Photographs
For each of the three distinct time periods, take one photo that comes closest to epitomizing the design pattern of each area at that time. Write a short caption (no more than 50-100 words) that describes the distinctive qualities of this area of the city for each photo and place the three photos and captions on a single page, which you can then make into a PDF, or a single PowerPoint slide.

    Since this is a course about designing cities, not individual buildings, the areas you describe should be larger than a single structure.
    Include a location for the photos on your overall map.
    You can do this electronically or by simply pasting things on a paper sheet that is A4 (210 × 297 mm) or 8½ × 11 inches.

Finally, combine the PDF or JPG slides into a single PDF file or convert the PPT file into a PDF file. Please notice that we only accept one PDF file. You can upload this file to the course web site (our TAs will provide more detailed instructions about how to do this in TA tutorial section). Please name your file as: family name_first name_city name. (Hack_Gary_Philadelphia)

